# Book Recommendation System

This project is a Streamlit-based web application that provides book recommendations using the FP-Growth algorithm. It offers data insights and personalized book recommendations based on association rules, complete with book cover images.

## Features

- Data preprocessing and cleaning
- Visualization of book-related statistics
- FP-Growth algorithm for association rule mining
- Book recommendation system
- Interactive user interface with Streamlit

## Project Structure

```


Book_Recommendation_System/
│
├── app.py                            # Main Streamlit application
├── README.md                         # Project documentation
├── requirements.txt                  # List of dependencies
│
├── config/
│   └── config.yaml                   # Configuration file for settings
│
├── scripts/
│   ├── preprocessing.py              # Data loading and preprocessing
│   ├── analysis.py                   # Data visualization and analysis
│   └── fp_growth.py                  # FP-Growth algorithm implementation
│
├── data/
│   ├── Books.csv                     # Books dataset
│   └── Ratings.csv                   # Ratings dataset
│
└── notebook/
    └── code.ipynb                    # Jupyter notebook with exploratory code
```

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/TazmeenAfroz/Book_Recommendation_System.git
   cd book-recommendation-system
   ```

2. Install the required packages:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the Streamlit app:
   ```
   streamlit run app.py
   ```

## Usage

1. Launch the application by running `streamlit run app.py`.
2. Explore the data insights provided in the visualizations.
3. View association rules generated by the FP-Growth algorithm.
4. Select a book to get personalized recommendations.

## Configuration

You can modify the `config/config.yaml` file to adjust various settings of the application, such as the minimum support and confidence for the FP-Growth algorithm.

## Data

This project uses the Book-Crossing dataset. The required CSV files are located in the `data/` directory:
- Books.csv
- Ratings.csv

## Notebook

The `notebook/code.ipynb` file contains the exploratory data analysis and initial code development for this project. You can run this Jupyter notebook to understand the data processing steps and algorithm implementation in detail.

## Live Demo

Check out the live demo of the application [here](https://bookrecommendationsystem-jouaalaumc9xhhevnfvcba.streamlit.app/).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
